dp page (#164)
NFDI4Microbiota/nfdi4microbiota-knowledge-base: docs/_Research-Data-Management/25-digital-preservation.md

# Digital preservation for researchers
The sustainable handling of data by researchers naturally facilitates the long-term accessibility of data. Best practice methods are:
* Cleaning data / data structures - see also: [Data Organisation](https://knowledgebase.nfdi4microbiota.de/Research-Data-Management/14-data-organization.html)
* Validating data - see also: [Data Quality Control](https://knowledgebase.nfdi4microbiota.de/Research-Data-Management/13-data-qc.html)
* Documenting data with metadata and context information to ensure reusability: commenting, adding descriptive, administrative and technical metadata, asigning user license.
* Using well-known open file formats during the project phase - see below - or transfering data into reusable file formats (needs documenting: original file or derivative)
* Storing data following the 3-2-1 rule:
    * Keeping 3 copies of any important file
    * Storing files on 2 different media types
    * Keeping at least 1 copy off site.

## Data selection

> To decide well-founded on data selection we recommend reading the how-to guide ["Five steps to decide what data to keep"](https://www.dcc.ac.uk/guidance/how-guides/five-steps-decide-what-data-keep) by Angus Whyte. The suggested steps are:

Reviewer: Thanks for this contribution! The author indicates how to cite his work:

> Please cite as: DCC (2014). 'Five steps to decide what data to keep: a checklist for appraising research data v.1'. Edinburgh: Digital Curation Centre. Available online: [/resources/how-guides](https://www.dcc.ac.uk/resources/how-guides)

Could you please edit the references.bib file to accommodate this reference?

In case a few resource can help:
- https://www.scribbr.com/apa-examples/website/
- or https://zbib.org/ to format a website reference into a bibtex

Reviewer: Hi @UParmaksiz feel free to reach out if there is something unclear with my comments or if you need help somewhere. Other than this missing bibliography  entry and a few typos, this contribution is good to go ; )

Reviewer: I did it in 7e0a18ff1a1a7dddbac6f54787df0dfc63099298

> * **Step 1:** Identify purposes that the data could fulfil: consider the purpose or ‘reuse case’ of your data, including reuse outside your research group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Step 1:** Identify purposes that the data could fulfill: consider the purpose or ‘reuse case’ of your data, including reuse outside your research group.
```

* **Step 2:** Identify data that **must** be kept: consider legal or policy compliance risks, as well as funder requirements. 
* **Step 3:** Identify data that **should** be kept: as it may have long-term value. 
* **Step 4:** Weigh up the costs and identify any need for external advice in case of shortfall in the budget. 

> * **Step 5:** Complete the data appraisal, i.e. list what data must, should or could be kept to fulfil which potential reuse purposes. Summarise any actions needed to prepare the data for deposit - or justification for not keeping it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Step 5:** Complete the data appraisal, i.e. list what data must, should or could be kept to fulfill which potential reuse purposes. Summarize any actions needed to prepare the data for deposit - or justification for not keeping it.
```
